# InventorySystemSimulation

The program simulates the inventory system of Cantilever Umbrella, an Australian firm established on 1 Jan 2000 specialised in sales of umbrellas.

The program first reads through a text file, which informs the start date of the simulation, as well as the starting
stock and starting revenue of the input date. Before the calculation of the ending year, stock, and revenues, the
program first runs a series of in-built functions that check the validity of the values in the text file. If the text
file contains invalid input, the program runs with the default value accordingly.

To calculate the ending stock, ending revenue, and date at the end of the year simulation, cal_stock_revenue() function
takes in the startingValues from read_data() function and takes the following steps:

- Each year between the established year of the company (2000) until the end year of the simulation
(start_year + NO_YEAR_SIM) has its unique list called monthlySummaries. These lists are generated
by endYearTo2000Summary() function, and each contains twelve dictionaries. Each dictionary, referred as
singleMonthSummary returned by generateMonthlySummaries(), is the monthlySummary of each month in the year, which
includes each month's RRP and dailySales.

- Each monthlySummaries list returned by endYearTo2000Summary() is further refined by
monthlySaleAndDefectivesCalculator() function. The function loops through each singleMonthSummary dictionary within
monthlySummaries and calculates defectives generated from each month, sales of each months before and after defectives
sales. The list then removes all the monthlySummaries from the years before the starting year of the simulation.

- With the refined monthlySummaries generated by monthlySaleAndDefectivesCalculator(), cal_stock_revenue() function
calculates the accumulated revenue and ending stock of the year input, based on the starting stock and revenue
extracted from the text file by read_data() The ending year, ending stock and revenue are all appended into a
dictionary as key-value pairs. This dictionary is the final output of cal_stock_revenue() function.

- In the end, the program runs write_data() function with the dictionary generated by cal_stock_revenue(), to create a
new textfile 'AU_INV_END.txt' and record each value of each key from the dictionary.

Each function in the program has a detailed description on top. All the steps taken in each function is also commented
in details to ease the end-user's understanding to the code. The descriptions and comments also include the
assumption made if necessary, marked by '*'.

According to the advice taken from consultations and posts from the forum, following assumptions are made:

* The defectives generated from last month must be sold in the first few days of the month, before selling new
umbrellas in stock.

* The defectives returned at the end of last month is NOT recorded in the inventory. Therefore, the subtraction from
the daily inventory occurs ONLY when the new umbrellas are sold. 

* The refund policy is NOT considered.

* The numbers that must be presented in integers (e.g. inventory, daily sales quantity, etc.) are rounded up. 

* Starting revenue read from the text file refers to the accumulated revenue earned until the start date. Similarly,
starting stock read from the text file is the ending stock of the day before the start date of the simulation. 

* The end_revenue and end_stock generated by the cal_stock_revenue() function are the starting stock and starting
revenue of the end_year (ending date) 

*The restock occurs only once a day. 

* The rounding occurs ONLY before generating the final summary of end_stock and end_revenue. 
